# Practopians Website Notes

This is a static website, designed to load quickly and be read easily.

The site is generated using PSTextMerge. Content is written in Markdown.

## Content Types and Sections

The site consists of the following sections, each containing a different type of content.

* Intro -- This section contains an introduction to the site, an About Page, and a Contact page.
* Core -- A few core writings that provide the basic definition of what it means to be a Practical Utopian.
* Issues -- Issues that we see as the most important ones facing humanity.
* Blog -- Various writings on topics of interest to Practical Utopians.
* Quotes -- Quotations on topics of interest to Practical Utopians.
* News -- News items of interest to Practical Utopians.

## Quotations

Quotations are pulled from iWisdom. Quotations must be exported. The Tags Export Preferences should be set as follows.

Tags to Select: Practopian

Tags to Suppress: Apple, Business, Lean, Management, Measurement, Pagan Tuna, Practopian, Reason to Rock

## Folders

The following folders are used in the construction of the site.

* content -- original text, formatted using Markdown
* factory -- PSTextMerge templates used to generate the site
* feed -- temporary files used to generate an integrated feed in chronological order for all site content
* html -- content formatted in HTML, mostly generated from the Markdown source in the content folder
* includes -- these are generated programmatically by the PSTextMerge script
* lists -- lists of the content to be incorporated into the site, including content metadata
* nextnav -- programmatically generated by the PSTextMerge script
* scripts -- practopians-gen.tcz is the big script that generates the entire site
* web -- this is where the resulting website ends up, before it is FTP'd to the web server

## Steps for Fresh Generation of Website

1. Update Quotes in iWisdom.

2. Set iWisdom Tags Export Preferences as follows:
	* Tags to Select: Practopian
	* Tags to Suppress: America, Apple, Business, Lean, Management, Measurement, Pagan Tuna, Practopian, Reason to Rock

3. Use iWisdom to export All Fields of Entire Collection to a tab delimited text file named 'quotes.tab' in the lists folder.

4. Open 'quotes.tab' in Excel and save in xls format to 'quotes.xls'.

5. Use PSTextMerge to play the script named 'practopians-gen.tcz' in the scripts folder.
