Title: Bylaws of The Society for Practical Utopians      ## Contents## ARTICLE 1. OFFICESThe principal office of the corporation shall be located at its principal place of business or such other place as the Board of Directors ("Board") may designate. The corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Washington, as the Board may designate or as the business of the corporation may require from time to time.## ARTICLE 2. NONPROFIT PURPOSES### 2.1 IRC Section 501(c)(3) PurposesThis corporation is organized exclusively for one or more of the purposes as specified in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, including, for such purposes, the making of distributions to organizations that qualify as exempt organizations under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.### 2.2 Specific Objectives and PurposesThe Society for Practical Utopians seeks to identify and promote beliefs, principles, values and actions that will result in a brighter future for humanity. We will work to advance our cause through authoring, publication, education, scientific advocacy, and promotion of literature and the arts as vital elements of human culture.## ARTICLE 3. MEMBERSHIP### 3.1 No MembersThe corporation shall initially have no members.### 3.2 MembershipMembership classes, the manner of election or appointment of members, the qualifications and rights of each class of members, and dues for members may be established by amendment to these Bylaws.## ARTICLE 4. BOARD OF DIRECTORS### 4.1 General PowersThe affairs of the corporation shall be managed by a Board of Directors.### 4.2 NumberThe Board shall consist of not less than one nor more than eleven Directors, the specific number to be set by resolution of the Board. The number of Directors may be changed from time to time by amendment to these Bylaws, provided that no decrease in the number shall have the effect of shortening the term of any incumbent Director.### 4.3 QualificationsDirectors shall be at least 18 years of age. Directors may have such other qualifications as the Board may prescribe by amendment to these Bylaws.### 4.4 DutiesIt shall be the duty of the directors to:a. Perform any and all duties imposed on them collectively or individually by law, by the articles of incorporation, or by these bylaws;b. Appoint and remove, employ and discharge, and, except as otherwise provided in these bylaws, prescribe the duties and fix the compensation, if any, of all officers, agents, and employees of the corporation;c. Supervise all officers, agents, and employees of the corporation to assure that their duties are performed properly;d. Meet at such times and places as required by these bylaws;e. Register their email addresses with the secretary of the corporation, with the understanding that notices of meetings mailed to them at such addresses shall be valid notices thereof.### 4.5 Election of Directors#### 4.5.1 Initial DirectorsThe initial Directors named in the Articles of Incorporation shall serve until the first annual meeting of the Board.#### 4.5.2 Successor DirectorsSuccessor Directors shall be elected each year at the annual meeting of the Board by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors then in office.### 4.6 Term of OfficeUnless a Director dies, resigns or is removed, he or she shall hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualifies.### 4.7 Annual MeetingThe annual meeting of the Board shall be held during the month of _________ on a date chosen by the President or the Board for the purposes of electing Directors and officers and transacting such business as may properly come before the meeting. If the annual meeting is not held on the date designated therefor, the Board shall cause the meeting to be held as soon thereafter as may be convenient.### 4.8 Regular MeetingsBy resolution, the Board may specify the date, time and place for holding regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.### 4.9 Special MeetingsSpecial meetings of the Board or any committee designated and appointed by the Board may be called by or at the written request of the President or any three Directors, or, in the case of a committee meeting, by the chairman of the committee. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings may fix any place either within or without the State of Washington as the place for holding any special Board or committee meeting called by them.### 4.10 Meetings by TelephoneMembers of the Board or any committee designated by the Board may participate in a meeting of such Board or committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other at the same time. Participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at a meeting.### 4.11 Place of MeetingsAll meetings shall be held at the principal office of the corporation or at such other place within or without the State of Washington designated by the Board, by any persons entitled to call a meeting or by a waiver of notice approved by all Directors.### 4.12 Notice of Special Meetings#### 4.12.1 In WritingNotices in writing may be delivered or mailed to the Director at his or her address shown on the records of the corporation not less than 10 days before the meeting. If notice is delivered via regular mail, the notice shall be deemed effective when deposited in the official government mail properly addressed with postage thereon prepaid. Neither the business to be transacted at nor the purpose of any special meeting need be specified in the notice of a special meeting.#### 4.12.2 Personal CommunicationNotice may be by personal communication with the Director not less than 10 days before the meeting.#### 4.12.3 Electronic TransmissionNotices may be provided in an electronic transmission and be electronically transmitted not less than 10 days before the meeting. Notice in an electronic transmission is effective only with respect to those Directors that have consented, in the form of a record, to receive electronically transmitted notices and designated in such consent the address, location or system to which these notices may be electronically transmitted. A Director who has consented to receipt of electronically transmitted notices may revoke the consent by delivering a revocation to the corporation in the form of a record. Furthermore, the consent is automatically revoked if the corporation is unable to electronically transmit two consecutive notices given by the corporation, and this inability becomes known to the person responsible for giving notice. Notice provided in an electronic transmission is effective when it is electronically transmitted to an address, location or system designated by the recipient for that purpose.#### 4.12.4 Posting Electronic NoticeNotice may be provided to Directors who have consented to receipt of electronically transmitted notices by posting the notice on an electronic network and delivering to such Directors a separate record of the posting, together with comprehensible instructions regarding how to obtain access to the posting on the electronic network not less than 10 days before the meeting. Notice is effective when it has been posted to an electronic network and a separate record of the posting has been delivered to the recipient as provided by this Section 4.11.4.### 4.13 Waiver of Notice#### 4.13.1 RecordWhenever any notice is required to be given to any Director under the provisions of these Bylaws, the Articles of Incorporation or applicable Washington law, a waiver thereof in the form of a record, including, without limitation, an electronic transmission from the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at nor the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the Board need be specified in the waiver of notice of such meeting.#### 4.13.2 By AttendanceThe attendance of a Director at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where a Director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.### 4.14 QuorumA majority of the number of Directors then in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any Board meeting. If a quorum is not present at a meeting, a majority of the Directors present may adjourn the meeting without further notice.### 4.15 Manner of ActingThe act of the majority of the Directors present at a meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board, unless the vote of a greater number is required by these Bylaws, the Articles of Incorporation or applicable Washington law.### 4.16 Presumption of AssentA Director of the corporation present at a Board meeting at which action on any corporate matter is taken shall be presumed to have assented to the action taken unless his or her dissent or abstention is entered in the minutes of the meeting, or unless such Director files a written dissent or abstention to such action with the person acting as secretary of the meeting before the adjournment thereof, or forwards such dissent or abstention to the Secretary of the corporation immediately after the adjournment of the meeting. Such right to dissent or abstain shall not apply to a Director who voted in favor of such action.### 4.17 Action by Board Without a MeetingAny action which could be taken at a meeting of the Board may be taken without a meeting if a consent in the form of a record, which consent clearly sets forth the action to be taken, is executed by all the Directors. Any such record shall be inserted in the minute book as if it were the minutes of a Board meeting. For purposes of this Section 3.16, record means information inscribed on a tangible medium or contained in an electronic transmission. ### 4.18 ResignationAny Director may resign at any time by delivering written notice to the President or the Secretary at the registered office of the corporation, or by giving oral or written notice at any meeting of the Directors. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or if the time is not specified, upon delivery thereof and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.### 4.19 RemovalOne or more Directors may be removed from office, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors then in office.### 4.20 VacanciesA vacancy in the position of Director may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining Directors though less than a quorum of the Board. A Director who fills a vacancy shall serve for the unexpired term of his or her predecessor in office.### 4.21 Board Committees#### 4.21.1 Standing or Temporary CommitteesThe Board, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Directors then in office, may designate and appoint one or more standing or temporary committees, each of which shall consist of two or more Directors. Such committees shall have and exercise the authority of the Directors in the management of the corporation, subject to such limitations as may be prescribed by the Board and by applicable Washington law, except that no committee shall have the authority to: (a) amend, alter or repeal these Bylaws; (b) elect, appoint or remove any member of any other committee or any Director or officer of the corporation; (c) amend the Articles of Incorporation; (d) adopt a plan of merger or consolidation with another corporation; (e) authorize the sale, lease, or exchange of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the corporation not in the ordinary course of business; (f) authorize the voluntary dissolution of the corporation or revoke proceedings therefor; (g) adopt a plan for the distribution of the assets of the corporation; or (h) amend, alter or repeal any resolution of the Board which by its terms provides that it shall not be amended, altered or repealed by a committee. The designation and appointment of any such committee and the delegation thereto of authority shall not operate to relieve the Board or any individual Director of any responsibility imposed upon it, him or her by law.#### 4.21.2 Quorum; Manner of ActingA majority of the number of Directors composing any committee shall constitute a quorum, and the act of a majority of the members of a committee present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the committee.#### 4.21.3 ResignationAny member of any committee may resign at any time by delivering written notice thereof to the President, the Secretary or the chairman of such committee, or by giving oral or written notice at any meeting of such committee. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if the time is not specified, upon delivery thereof and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.#### 4.21.4 Removal of Committee MemberThe Board, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Directors then in office, may remove from office any member of any committee elected or appointed by it.#### 4.22 CompensationThe Directors shall receive no compensation for their service as Directors but may receive reimbursement for reasonable expenditures incurred on behalf of the corporation.#### 4.23 Nonliability of DirectorsThe directors shall not be personally liable for the debts, liabilities, or other obligations of the corporation.#### 4.24 Indemnification by Corporation of Directors and OfficersThe directors and officers of the corporation shall be indemnified by the corporation to the fullest extent permissible under the laws of this state.## ARTICLE 5. OFFICERS### 5.1 Number and QualificationsThe officers of the corporation shall be a President, a Vice President, a Secretary and a Treasurer, each of whom shall be elected by the Board. Other officers and assistant officers may be elected or appointed by the Board, such officers and assistant officers to hold office for such period, have such authority and perform such duties as are provided in these Bylaws or as may be provided by resolution of the Board. Any officer may be assigned by the Board any additional title that the Board deems appropriate. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person, except the offices of President and Secretary. All officers must be Directors of the corporation.### 5.2 Election and Term of OfficeOfficers shall be elected by the board of directors, at any time, and each officer shall hold office until he or she resigns or is removed or is otherwise disqualified to serve, or until his or her successor shall be elected and qualified, whichever occurs first.### 5.3 ResignationAny officer may resign at any time by delivering written notice to the President, the Vice President, the Secretary or the Board, or by giving oral or written notice at any meeting of the Board. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if the time is not specified, upon delivery thereof and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.### 5.4 RemovalAny officer or agent elected or appointed by the Board may be removed by the Board whenever in its judgment the best interests of the corporation would be served thereby, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed.### 5.5 VacanciesA vacancy in any office created by the death, resignation, removal, disqualification, creation of a new office or any other cause may be filled by the Board for the unexpired portion of the term or for a new term established by the Board. In the event of a vacancy in any office other than that of President, such vacancy may be filled temporarily by appointment by the President until such time as the board shall fill the vacancy. Vacancies occurring in offices of officers appointed at the discretion of the board may or may not be filled as the board shall determine.### 5.6 PresidentThe President shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation, and, subject to the Board's control, shall supervise and control all of the assets, business and affairs of the corporation. The President shall preside over meetings of the Board. The President may sign deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts, or other instruments, except when the signing and execution thereof have been expressly delegated by the Board or by these Bylaws to some other officer or agent of the corporation or are required by law to be otherwise signed or executed by some other officer or in some other manner. In general, the President shall perform all duties incident to the office of President and such other duties as are assigned to him or her by the Board from time to time.### 5.7 Vice PresidentIn the event of the death of the President or his or her inability to act, the Vice President shall perform the duties of the President, except as may be limited by resolution of the Board, with all the powers of and subject to all the restrictions upon the President. The Vice President shall have, to the extent authorized by the President or the Board, the same powers as the President to sign deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments. The Vice President shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the President or by the Board.### 5.8 SecretaryThe Secretary shall:  (a) keep the minutes of meetings of the Board and any minutes which may be maintained by committees of the Board; (b) see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws or as required by law; (c) be custodian of the corporate records of the corporation; (d) keep records of the email address of each Director and officer; and (e) in general perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the President or the Board.### 5.9 TreasurerIf requested by the Board, the Treasurer shall give a bond for the faithful discharge of his or her duties in an amount and with such surety or sureties as the Board may determine. The Treasurer shall have charge and custody of and be responsible for all funds and securities of the corporation; receive and give receipts for moneys due and payable to the corporation from any source whatsoever, and deposit all such moneys in the name of the corporation in banks, trust companies or other depositories selected in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws; and in general perform all of the duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the President or the Board.### 5.11 CompensationThe officers shall receive no compensation for their service as officers but may receive reimbursement for reasonable expenditures incurred on behalf of the corporation.## ARTICLE 6. EXECUTIVE DIRECTORThe corporation may employ an Executive Director who shall be appointed, employed, and discharged by the Board. If employed, the Executive Director shall manage the affairs of the corporation according to the policies, principles, practices and budget authorized by the Board, and shall be responsible for management of personnel, finances and programs. If employed, the Executive Director shall be responsible for staff management including hiring, training, disciplinary action, and discharge. If employed, the Executive Director shall serve as an ex-officio, non-voting member of the Board. For the purpose of determining the number of Directors serving the corporation, the Executive Director shall not be considered a member of the Board.## ARTICLE 7. ADVISORY BOARDThe Board of Directors may appoint an Advisory Board of two or more persons to provide advice and assistance to the Board. Members of the Advisory Board may be invited to meetings of the Board, but shall not be entitled to vote or exercise other powers of a director of the corporation; provided, however, to the extent permitted by law, members of the Advisory Board shall be entitled to the same limitations on liability and rights to indemnification as directors of the corporation. The Board of Directors may determine by separate resolution the operational rules which shall govern the Advisory Board. Advisory Board members may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the Board.## ARTICLE 8. INTERESTS OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS### 8.1 CompensationDirectors who receive any compensation for services in any capacity, directly or indirectly, from the corporation may not vote on matters pertaining to that Director's compensation.### 8.2 Conflict of InterestDirectors and officers shall disclose to the Board any financial interest which the Director or officer directly or indirectly has in any person or entity which is a party to a transaction under consideration by the Board. The interested Director or officer shall abstain from voting on the transaction.### 8.3 Review of Certain TransactionsPrior to entering into any compensation agreement, contract for goods or services, or any other transaction with any person who is in a position to exercise influence over the affairs of the corporation, the Board shall establish that the proposed transaction is reasonable when compared with a similarly-situated organization for functionally comparable positions, goods or services rendered.## ARTICLE 9. ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL PROVISIONS### 9.1 LoansNo loans shall be contracted on behalf of the corporation and no evidences of indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless authorized by a resolution of the Board. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.### 9.2 Loans or Extensions of Credit to Officers and DirectorsNo loans shall be made and no credit shall be extended by the corporation to its officers or Directors.### 9.3 Checks, Drafts, Etc.All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers, or agent or agents, of the corporation and in such manner as is from time to time determined by resolution of the Board.### 9.4 DepositsAll funds of the corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the Board may select.### 9.5 Books and RecordsThe corporation shall keep at its principal or registered office copies of its current Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws; correct and adequate records of accounts and finances, minutes of the proceedings of its Boards and any minutes which may be maintained by committees of the Board; records of the names and email addresses of its officers and Directors, and such other records as may be necessary or advisable.### 9.6 Corporate SealIf the Board determines that it is advisable, the corporation shall have a corporate seal consisting of the name of the corporation, the state of its incorporation and the year of its incorporation.### 9.7 Accounting YearUnless a different accounting year is at any time selected by the Board, the accounting year of the corporation shall be the twelve months ending December 31.### 9.8 Rules of ProcedureThe rules of procedure at meetings of the Board and committees of the Board shall be rules contained in Roberts' Rules of Order on Parliamentary Procedure, Newly Revised, so far as applicable and when not inconsistent with these Bylaws, the Articles of Incorporation or any resolution of the Board.## Article 10 IRC 501(c)(3) Tax Exemption Provisions### 10.1 Limitations on ActivitiesNo substantial part of the activities of this corporation shall be the carrying on of propaganda, or otherwise attempting to influence legislation (except as otherwise provided by Section 501(h) of the Internal Revenue Code), and this corporation shall not participate in, or intervene in (including the publishing or distribution of statements), any political campaign on behalf of, or in opposition to, any candidate for public office.Notwithstanding any other provisions of these bylaws, this corporation shall not carry on any activities not permitted to be carried on (a) by a corporation exempt from federal income tax under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, or (b) by a corporation, contributions to which are deductible under Section 170(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code.### 10.2 Prohibition Against Private Inurement No part of the net earnings of this corporation shall inure to the benefit of, or be distributable to, its members, directors or trustees, officers, or other private persons, except that the corporation shall be authorized and empowered to pay reasonable compensation for services rendered and to make payments and distributions in furtherance of the purposes of this corporation.### 10.3 Distribution of AssetsUpon the dissolution of this corporation, its assets remaining after payment, or provision for payment, of all debts and liabilities of this corporation, shall be distributed for one or more exempt purposes within the meaning of Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code or shall be distributed to the federal government, or to a state or local government, for a public purpose. Such distribution shall be made in accordance with all applicable provisions of the laws of this state.### 10.4 Private Foundation Requirements and RestrictionsIn any taxable year in which this corporation is a private foundation as described in Section 509(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, the corporation (1) shall distribute its income for said period at such time and manner as not to subject it to tax under Section 4942 of the Internal Revenue Code; (2) shall not engage in any act of self-dealing as defined in Section 4941(d) of the Internal Revenue Code; (3) shall not retain any excess business holdings as defined in Section 4943(c) of the Internal Revenue Code; (4) shall not make any investments in such manner as to subject the corporation to tax under Section 4944 of the Internal Revenue Code; and (5) shall not make any taxable expenditures as defined in Section 4945(d) of the Internal Revenue Code.## ARTICLE 11. AMENDMENTSThese Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed and new Bylaws may be adopted at any meeting of the Board by approval of the board of Directors.## ADOPTION OF BYLAWSWe, the undersigned, are all of the initial Directors or incorporators of this corporation, and we consent to, and hereby do adopt, the foregoing bylaws as the bylaws of this corporation. Dated: _______________________________________Herb Bowie      